Release notes version: 8 (#6690)
equinor/ert: docs/about/release_notes.rst

 Miscellaneous:
   -

Version 8.0
-----------

In this version of ERT we have cleaned up a lot of unused analysis keywords. Some have been deprecated,
while others that were previously deprecated have now been removed. If they are present in your
configuration, you will get a message in the suggestor at startup:

.. image:: version-8.0-suggestor.png

We encourage everyone to keep their configuration updated and remove and replace deprecated keywords.

> Another big change this release is the change to a streaming algorithm, which updates a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This release introduces the streaming algorithm, which updates a
```
The `in` was missing, but I rewrote to get rid of double use of the word `change`

 Miscellaneous:
   -

Version 8.0
-----------

> In this version of ERT we have clean up a lot of unused analysis keywords. Some have been deprecated,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this version of ERT we have cleaned up a lot of unused analysis keywords. Some have been deprecated,
```

while others that were previously deprecated have now been removed. If they are present in your
configuration, you will get a message in the suggestor at startup:

.. image:: version-8.0-suggestor.png

We encourage everyone to keep their configuration updated and remove and replace deprecated keywords.

> Another big change this release is the change to a streaming algorithm. The streaming algorithm

Reviewer 2: Maybe define `streaming algorithm` a bit.

```suggestion
Another big change this release is the change to a streaming algorithm, which updates a single parameter group at a time instead of updating all at once. This means ERT only needs to hold one parameter group in memory at a time ,which significantly reduces memory usage when doing updates, without any effect to the result of the update.
```

will be identical to the prior, and there will be no update. Note that the feature is still experimental, and
any feedback is welcomed.

.. image:: version-8.0-localization.gif

We added an option to delete run path if it exists. Running in an existing run path can cause unintended side effects.
For example ERT expects to read a number of files after the forward model has completed. If those files exists from a previous
run, and for some reason the new forward model did not overwrite them, ERT will read outdated information. Example:

.. image:: version-8.0-delete-runpath.gif

Note that if the run path is large, deleting it might take several minutes.

There is a new tab in the `Details` view of the `Run simulations` panel, showing the progress of the update. While in most cases the
update is fairly quick, if running with Adaptive localization, the run time will be longer, and this tab will show the progress.

.. image:: version-8.0-update.gif

Full change log below:

Breaking changes:
  - Make random seed be int only (`link <https://github.com/equinor/ert/pull/6390>`__)
  - Add events and a GUI model for base_run_model (`link <https://github.com/equinor/ert/pull/6388>`__)

>   - Store observations (`link <https://github.com/equinor/ert/pull/6302>`__)

Reviewer 3: New feature maybe?

Reviewer 3: Yhea. that I think deserves a separate point. But we have no logging indicating that this is done for anything else than the workflows we control.

  - Make createRunPath a stand alone function and clean up EnKFMain (`link <https://github.com/equinor/ert/pull/6415>`__)
  - Remove unused max_running in ForwardModel (`link <https://github.com/equinor/ert/pull/6514>`__)
  - Remove ENKF_FORCE_NCOMP and add deprecation for ENKF_NCOMP & ENKF_SUBSPACE_DIMENSION (`link <https://github.com/equinor/ert/pull/6560>`__)
  - Remove unused keyword ENKF_BOOTSTRAP (`link <https://github.com/equinor/ert/pull/6569>`__)
  - Remove unused keyword ENKF_MODE (`link <https://github.com/equinor/ert/pull/6568>`__)
  - Remove `USE_EE` & `USE_GE` analysis keywords (`link <https://github.com/equinor/ert/pull/6576>`__)

>   - Remove cli option current-case for es-mda (`link <https://github.com/equinor/ert/pull/6542>`__)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Remove cli option current-case for es-mda, as it had no effect (`link <https://github.com/equinor/ert/pull/6542>`__)
```

New features:

>   - Add STOP_ON_FAIL option for wf jobs (`link <https://github.com/equinor/ert/pull/6101>`__)

Reviewer 3: Think we should make a highlighted point from this as well

  - Add option to delete run_path (`link <https://github.com/equinor/ert/pull/6179>`__)

>   - Implement misfit preprocessor in ert (`link <https://github.com/equinor/ert/pull/6458>`__)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Move misfit preprocessor into core ert (`link <https://github.com/equinor/ert/pull/6458>`__)
```

  - Implement streaming algorithm (`link <https://github.com/equinor/ert/pull/6316>`__)
  - Implement adaptive localization (`link <https://github.com/equinor/ert/pull/6370>`__)

Bugfixes:
  - Fix visible and copyable run_path stripped of placeholders (`link <https://github.com/equinor/ert/pull/6412>`__)
  - Fix unable to use anything except iteration 0 for ensemble experiment (`link <https://github.com/equinor/ert/pull/6471>`__)
  - Fix bug where field size with mask was wrong (`link <https://github.com/equinor/ert/pull/6513>`__)

>   - Import from future to stop webviz ert from crashing (`link <https://github.com/equinor/ert/pull/6573>`__)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Fix a bug that would make webviz-ert crash (`link <https://github.com/equinor/ert/pull/6573>`__)
```
